The first is Samayas. Samaya, you all know, I don't have to say anything, but Samayam is the
commitment, with courage, with yoga, keeping up our commitment, and coming up again, if you want to
hear what is mentioned, all Samayas can be summarized into all each other.
So, we need to preserve the bodhijata. The bodhijata can be understood, or not understood, it can
be divided as relative to the bodhijata and absolute to the bodhijata, so to bodhijata.
And the relative to the bodhijata can be divided as wishing bodhijata and actualizing bodhijata,
also again relative to the bodhijata.
And the essence of the wishing bodhijata is all boundless, and we all know that, we join that open,
so all boundless.
Boundless love, boundless compassion, boundless joy and appreciation, and boundless or reduce, and
boundless economy, keep that in heart.
And to preserve that, again, it's not just a wishing bodhijata, but also actualizing bodhijata.
It's courage and commitment, and patience, and openness.
So, with that, keep the wishing bodhijata, and then as we have the wishing bodhijata in our heart,
family, in citizen status, then do the actualizing bodhijata,
which is then, the actualizing bodhijata can be many things.
Practicing dharma is actualizing bodhijata.
We practice such, we just started with bodhijata, and we think that whenever we are all living,
being really doing something with it, and that's our activity.
And then also known as sixth part of the practice, all those wishing bodhijata, whatever you can do
, according to your capability, but with your inspirations.
And courage and commitment, that is what is preserving, keeping that.
And what a great master, known as, I think many of you know that very beautiful life story of the
life story of God as well, of magical dance.
Magical dance of illusion.
What?
Wondrous dance of illusion.
Wondrous?
Wondrous.
Wondrous, that great master's, his teacher is known as nyunku.
And he highlighted, it's not just only him, he highlighted that.
When we take the bodhijata for example, vows, we keep the vows, that's what we call it.
But to upkeep that, up is the hook, the hook of the commitment and hook.
The hook of commitment.
So when we take sometimes vows and this commitment, but we lose, we lost the commitment.
We don't have enough hook to hold it.
So really this great master said, have the vows or keep the commitment, but keep up the commitment,
hook of the commitment.
Dhamjic japchung said that.
Dhamjic japchung means hook.
H-O-O-K.
So we can keep those.
We can be reminded that to us.
Practice is why we're not going to practice by someone, we're going to practice our style.
While we're going to practice, we're going to practice our, rewirling our triggers.
And due to our own habit effectiveness of the samsara, the level piled up through all the light
times,
already there's weakness times, we can lose, we can kind of fall down on the ditch.
But not just kind of falling on that ditch, immediately trying to bounce back.
That is practice, bounce back.
Be, stand firmly, reactivate, and feel the presence of the Gurdwama, some of the lineage masters.
Master their blessings, really stand up firmly and be in our principles.
Then practice, to those old practices.
So the wishing bodhic jata and actualizing bodhic jata, that really, that is all related to the bod
hic jata.
And after the true bodhic jata is the meditation, zukin meditation, or the Mahamudar meditation.
The meditation, that means also kind of the power and energy of the meditation is not grasping,
clinging too much.
Even though sometimes we know it's not really good health for our and not good for anything, but we
hold up with that.
We do that, not just you, we all do this.
That is then grasping, clinging on the habit dependence, and guided by the force of that.
Then we lose the control, our strength, our identities.
So bring a little bit of the thought of no grasping, and those are then part of the meditation
practice, the absolute bodhic jata.
Then talk with your practice of meditation, what do you already have?
Such as, give up those practices, and all those maintain it as much as you can.
And we gather it in the Buddha teaching, what's the name of the Master who measures all Buddhas.
Generally, in bodhis, all Buddhas.
One Buddha in bodhis, all Buddhas.
Hayagirma, Madhya Vada, in bodhis, all Buddhas.
O Vayakalaya, in bodhis, all Buddhas.
Kirei, in bodhis, all Buddhas.
And Guruvama, Samhara, in bodhis, all Buddhas.
So with that thought, and practice, highlight.
Then we're keeping Samayas of the connection to all the Buddhas.
So those are basically kind of the, just a reminder of the Samayas.
Then you all, you know.
And the Samayas is the only one to tell, is maintain our practices.
And we like to, for example, when we get the Buddha blend of the flowers, in the Buddha board,
we sold out on the flower market, and bought and blended that.
But then it always comes with the chips.
There's a small level of chips.
And we like to really keep that beautiful blooming as you saw.
Then you have to try and keep that, those chips.
That is Samayas.
Then it will bloom more.
Even with beautiful eyes, we don't keep that chips.
Then it goes away.
I mean, it goes slowly, it goes away.
Perfect.
And then you say, oh, what happened?
This is not going well.
Of course not.
It's not going well.
Because we're telling Father Jim's.
That's the Samayas.
That's really his, that's it.
Samayas is not keeping for the Buddha, not keeping for the Dharma, not keeping for the other Sangha
members.
But it's for our sake.
I want our sake.
I mean, that's what it is, really.
That, you know, I'm not just telling the stories, all that.
So that's it.
So that is really, those are brilliant about the Samayas.
And again, in the presence of all the Madalas.
And you will repeat this following phrase.